---
layout: post
category: poem
---

Kids

_Ce n’est pas un wooden rocking chair behind the heavy metal door of the red brick house. _

It is a middle school party and all the uncool kids are not here. 
There are sharp kids, 
round children, pointy kids, 
star-spangled kids, myopic kids and sleepy kids, 
shaky kids who had sour candy and soda, 
mushy kids who melt, 
horsey kids and kids in hats, 
and there are kids who are mothers and kids 
who, for the first time in their lives, sitting in the corner 
being shunned by the kid with good hair, 
are learning how sadness creeps like a pudgy 
earthworm above their tongue, 
a green tongue after apple soda, 
which this kid is worried about because of “colored additives,” which means death, of course, 
this is what the smart kids tend to think about. 

There is a direct-to-DVD teen trash suburban Prince Charming in a striped top movie playing because this doubles as a sleepover for the ten-year-old sister, and she is as ten and as sister as anyone can be. There is a suspense in the walls. A cup drops but it does not break. It was all plastic. A kid is in a vaguely carpeted household where there is vaguely different food and none of the above, the above are possible. 

There will be kids in eyeliner 
and kids in jean jackets 
and kids after concerts 
and kids who just read Just Kids 
and kids who turn out really, really bad and work in a nice office and dream of beating their wife. 

Kids who sniffed glue when they were little and never stopped are kids who refused to dress well are kids who lived through the eyes of others are kids who needed space from themselves, kids who didn’t know they were kids yet. And all the kids are waiting to become you. You are dressed to the brim and your neck is thin and you think about the knife and fork and I am hiding my flowers from you, but how do I forget this same house from then? I took your diary and made you cry and I never apologized. Now I’m dressed in all white and you must think I am beautiful, like I always did about you. But we were all measly children once. 
