---
layout: post
category: story
---
They wanted me to write about other things, but this is foremost a story of us. I was sitting three tables (metallic, dim and blue) away from you while you talked about pterodactyls with the Golden boys, the boys Eternal. I gazed at you in the off-putting way that the lazy cow in our textbook grazed on grass, I was five and I already knew that I’d do nothing with my life. But I was above you, you see, I was friends with everyone who laughed at your stubby hands and wispy hair, about how you never brushed or tucked your clothes in, about your sloppy, dirt-filled sock and shoe. I was yet to realize that I was myopic, so I imagined you beautiful nevertheless. 

We were never friends for the record: I remember this clear as day because you walked up to me one day and clutched my shoulders (I almost bled, your nails were shaggy) and you said that from this day onwards, between you and me, we are going to hate everyone together. I scoffed at you because you were ridiculous but then my breath stopped and I was arrested in the totality of you. As you told me to, I exchanged my ribbons for off-brand alcohol and told you that I come from a family of centenarians and I have so, so much time to spare. You said that you came upon me that day because you watch every yes everyone in class and you saw that I pinched and kicked the boy next to me when he copied my answers in math. I told you that I don’t remember doing that at all.

You, [redacted], were born in the capital city to the owner of a plastics factory. Her husband was its operations manager. They weren’t busy and they cared about you. (I still think you were born wrong. It would make more sense if you’re a cannibal’s son, a professor’s daughter. But your father purchased a small condom business when we were in middle school and blew away the downpayment for the house they were going to buy you when you turn eighteen.)

We went to the same schools, we were a pair. Mostly nothing happened to us. (The guy you were seeing liked you for who you are and liked me for how I looked. You knew that we were fucking, I didn’t know that you didn’t mind, I was fifteen and so, so scared of you.) You bought me milkshakes and forced me to read de Beauvoir and told me not to go to parties. But that’s when it started, wasn’t it? Your fascination with these things, as you would call them. These things that people do and don’t really think about till they are older and some people never realize that it was because something sinister has been boiling down in our world for a long, long time. I spent high school trying not to mind you. Your favorite play was Lysistrata. Our main pastimes was going to fast food joints late at night and kicking street poles and stealing things. You were too smart to get us into trouble. 

You were a good kid yes but I don’t think you ever repressed anything, I don’t think you were angry. Of course you had daddy issues like all of us your father would take you to these things and me and my father would be there and I saw how he talked about your future and how you, instead of your older sister, were going to take over the family business. You didn’t hate him at all. We got through all of it by joking about dicks. You have been joking about dicks since as long as I could remember. 

They would want to know this — have you always wanted to do this — have you always been cruel? I wouldn’t have known, but I always thought you were capable of a great cruelty, because you always gave mercy so freely. All I knew is that suddenly you woke up one day and decided you wanted to be as pretty as ballerinas were and I decided that yes I will be the pus in between your toes on pointe. You told me your plan and I said yes, yes yes yes. It’s because you didn’t really hate men. (You understood everything. Hating was impossible because, because.) 

It was depressingly easy. We were already volunteering with vulnerable women in our communities. I stood there and helped you make a list of names and places. It wasn’t hard for you to talk to them, you just had to clutch them like you clutched me so many years ago. You taught the women to order the scissor-knife-sedative combination from the Internet and it wasn’t suspicious to them at first because housewives needed scissors and knives and housewives had headaches anyway. You told them all that you’ve done it once and it works. You said there had to be date where they all do it together at night, like in Lysistrata. You said that they shouldn’t be scared of their violent husbands and that the medicine takes care of it all. But to be safe, you gave them all guns.

I wasn’t involved in the insurgency part of this. Somewhere along that night (screams on streets, etc) you said I was too kind and pretty and too always a girl girl girl to understand all this so you made me go to sleep and promised me a new world when I wake up. I didn’t know how you did it, I don’t know how you got the troops — the troops — I still don’t know who they are! — out there and I don’t know how you got other people to do this for you but you told me that you were neutering them all across the country and I said, you’re getting us killed for sure.

I am done. I am an impatient writer. But you see, it really wasn’t as complicated as you thought. Yes she fucked us all over yes this was bland and weird and twisted yes she is manic and I helped her with this. But I think that odds are the kids will be laughing about this when we die. Our shadows, hers and mine, will be on the pages and carry sound with us still.)))
