---
layout: post
category: others
---

1

She insists I uncapitalize her last name and call her H— only. Ache, like so.


2

We ran in the same circles, the circles were cruel to us.

A roundabout, concentric dance to find her, as if chasing a chicken.

We took each other from the circles and left them for good.

This is what happens to many lovers. 



3

In the mornings, if the outside is white with steam, I’d have a vision of her rising out of bed. She crawls into a robe and takes leave. I would wait for her, head humming and half-awaken, till she returns and climbs into bed, her long limbs stretched tall above me. She tells me she wanted to be a model, and demands I justify why I should have her. My tongue sinks at the moment of sting, and I would wake up to find myself holding her, my head pressed against her bare shoulder. She would notice and shift her body to turn to me. She would say good morning, I push both our hair away, she leans sideways to kiss me.

4

I don’t remember our first meeting.

She did not stand out to me. I vaguely remember her eyes, deep-set and empty, bearing the weight of her heavy brows.



5

Theories of how we first met:

on a subway, at a dance, in a park, through her friends, for a cause, down the stairs, pass the street, up a drain, outside parties.

(how we would have met if not for.)

Our eyes didn’t lock. I didn’t know where she was looking. So I can lie about this. 


6
Helen lucas. Helen, not after a grandma, but of Troy. Troy rhymes with boys, she wants them to fight over her, blood and death and honor in her name. It makes a woman out of you.

7
I am a woman.

8
I go to her knife and I am a bar of uncarved soap. 

I listen to her music, read her books, pick up her interests.

These things she had taken from other women’s worlds.

These other women I would not like to know.

Through her world I go.

I am more generous. I will give nothing to her.

9
I will fight any man for her but I will lose.

I am weak. I run slowly, my digestion is poor.

I am brilliant on paper, I am pretty too. I am a young man in my prime.

10
I think her mother dislikes me.
