---
layout: post
category: other
---

Let me run my arm down the spine of you, which would be the walk to Sterling, the chill of the Women’s table, as if all we are is water. I am in you, I can see you here, I am sick and burning in a compartment of you and the air is arid like the deserts they have conquered in your name. Melodrama seems fitting, but we populate you and we are plain folk. What pitiable things we do to look like you -- plaid pants, black belt, and the cuffed collar of crisp mornings dry -- but you’ve made me sick as punishment. You were never supposed to be emulated. I was never supposed to be here.

You would wake me in the mornings with construction noise. You would take my ear and tell me to fend for myself. But I am sick, you know? I get sick everywhere I go, but you make me sick in such a sick and twisted way, I am glad to be sick here; I wonder who else would have the pleasure of having a really terrible cold in the middle of a loud and cruel summer, how many would have fought or killed me to be here, for all the better. You would be silent in the background. My head doesn’t hurt, it’s just hot and if I was a man I would blame this on climate change too. My throat is filled with what I would like to think is anger. I am here and I notice things you don’t like about yourself. In your body, I am never alone. 

It takes a week for the cold to go, two weeks for my acne to clear up, three weeks to figure out a new skincare routine, four weeks to feel okay and loved, and five weeks for you to accept me as true. You would take my hands and put me into a meat grinder, but it wouldn’t hurt because it doesn’t hurt for everyone else. But my eyes are mine. I would look at you and burn you into yourself. You would be feverish too; me and my friends, we sit here with just our eyes, and you wouldn’t recognize us. What did you invite into your body?

You are the work of a singularity of men, dark and ignorant at heart. To go back through your class lists by year is to see myself disappear.
