---
layout: post
category: story
---

I am running along the ledge in Christmastime. I pass the polished steel bridge along the string lights, tracing my thumb against the frozen metal, the dark water beneath me in my wake. To death, to death, to death! In the haze of the city I see no waxwings slain, no flowers for herself, no Spear-Danes in the days gone by. I see nothing I know and I know nothing I see. In between bridge and berserk, I think of my sadness as godly. That which nothing greater can be thought, it sinks and I rise to my work. My quotidian miracles, little papers everywhere, in search of cold. The water closes in, my face masked by salt and soot. I am thinking, I sink, into the wetted bedrock of the world. I am waiting for a final moment.

—

To Sam: Our subject is a renowned climate scientist, everything you need to know is in yesterday’s news. I’ve already rendered the last moment and sent it over. While you’re waiting for things to load, here are some keywords to help with your rendering: Christmas, bridge, river, suicide. City, Pale Fire, Mrs Dalloway, Beowulf. Knowledge, Socrates, phenomenology. Violence, Maimonides, routine. Thought, sink, waiting. These are the things the subject was thinking in the moment before death. -Susie

—

My father is standing before me. I am ten and naked: I had lost my clothes while I went swimming in the neighborhood pool. He was going through my closet, frowning furious, trying to find something to cover me up. “Never allow anyone to see you like that, kid.” He said. “It’s cold.” I told him. “It’s not cold.” He said. “It’s only because of the wind.”

“Why?” I ask. 

“The wind blows away the water on your skin. As it dries, the water takes away your body heat.”

“Even if it’s not cold, I feel cold.” I protest.

“No, it’s not cold.” He said, he seemed really annoyed with me. “It’s twenty degrees Celsius in December. You’re making a big deal out of nothing.” 

My father always likes complaining about how hot it is. I don’t particularly understand this: we get bursts of cold weather now and again, but otherwise it just feels normal. He says I wouldn’t know what cold feels like. We are not supposed to wear short sleeves year-round, he said, and we shouldn’t always be sweating. It’s not the way it used to be, and it’s not the way it’s supposed to be. Me, I quite like the thin sheet of salt that is always on my skin. But my father says it feels like something is burning in the air all the time. It’s a common complaint from people of his generation. If I don’t know cold, I wouldn’t know hot. That means I have no sense of scale. 

My father perceives the world in a way I cannot understand. But I want to understand him. Thus began my lifelong fascination with temperature. 

—

To Susie: I rendered a couple of memories this afternoon. There are a few things that stood out to me. First, the scene of the suicide: it’s a winter heat wave and quite gloomy, so maybe your team can work on changing the surroundings to more pleasant weather or something. Second, the relationship to the father: the father’s judgement is important, and nearly always punitive. I think that because there are so little social relationships otherwise, the father is the only social and moral reference point against which every action is checked. Three, unless you haven’t realized already, no friends nor lovers, no memories of platonic or romantic attraction, so maybe you can like insert more loved ones to see if that provides a reason to stay in the world. Hope the weather is nice in California—I am sweating to my death here. - Sam

—

I am running along the ledge in spring. I pass the wooden bridge along the vines of flowers, tracing my thumb against the prickly petals, the clear water beneath me in my wake. To death, to death, to death! In the haze of the forest I see birds and flowers and sunlight creeping down. I see green. 

In this moment I recall that particular summer. I am lying down in the blinding sun, my foot and hair slanted off the bed, I was reading Rachel Carson, I was in love. He is as tall as all brooding things are, a fatalist after my own heart. I had dreamt of someone like him my whole life: our work mirrored each others, we’d save the world hand in hand. We were twenty-three. He never sweated no matter how hot it was, but he was bashful of everything, even the sun. So I told him, I will take care of you. He would be happy for me now, I think: he would understand.

In between bridge and berserk, I think of my sadness as piteous. That which nothing greater can be thought, it sinks and I rise to my work. My quotidian miracles, little papers everywhere, in search of cold. The water closes in, my face masked by leaves and pinecones. I am sinking, I think, into the wetted bedrock of the world, I am waiting for a final moment.

—

To Sam: I have tried out your suggestions and the subject seems still bent upon death. Everything I have adjusted to make the personal life happier seems to circle back to the question of work. For example, the ideal partner is ultimately someone who mirrored the subject’s research interests. The father is a motivation and a loved one, but I need more memories of the father and the subject’s research to go on working. Can you try your hand at pulling those memories? -Susie

—

I am standing on the first floor of the BreezyCo complex, back when it is just a startup of two grad students not too unlike myself, when it only had two floors. One for me, one for them. The kids upstairs know me as the moody scientist, they know to leave me alone. 

I like the drip coffee from the machine upstairs. I would add two bags of sugar without stirring. It begins like bitter firewood and ends in a syrup. There is movement in every cup of coffee, a scale moving towards something better. I am getting a phone-call from a social worker in my hometown. My hometown flooded again last week, it is sinking into the sea. My father is fine and doesn’t remember much. The social worker is calling me to tell me that he is not eating.

BreezyCo started with the mission to provide universal air-conditioning to all corners of the world. When I failed to design something portable but came up with the dome design, they pivoted to creating an exclusive air-conditioned living community while the world sinks. I can’t help but blame this on myself. If I had done better, we wouldn’t need to turn to the rich and powerful to survive. I don’t want them to live in comfort: they are not the people I want to help. 

The kids upstairs raised my pay yesterday. My father is already living in the most expensive nursing home in the country.

I want to save the world, but it refuses to wait for me.

—

To Susie: To me there is a God complex going on. There is definitely dissatisfaction with working in the corporate environment, but every memory of success in research is tied to the doom and gloom that motivated the research in the first place. I guess all I am saying is I don’t know if it’s possible to separate the intellect from the part of itself that seeks to destroy it. It might be easier for me to access the memories with that one idea than to change the mind entirely. -Sam

—

I am running along the ledge while the leaves fall around me. I pass the brown bridge beneath a roaring crowd, tracing my thumb against the confetti, a narrow river beneath me in my wake. I have never seen the world like this. Nevertheless, towards home, towards what is inevitable. In the haze of the forest I see an opening into a world I do not understand. In which I am laughing, in between my footfalls, my no longer private joy meaningless beneath the crowd. Everyone is crying, they sink and I rise to my work. My quotidian miracles, making a wall, a safe house for those I detest. The water closes in, I swim up and seek my father in the crowd: he is dying too. I am thinking, I sink, into the wetted bedrock of the world. I am waiting for a final moment.

—

To Sam: I made good progress today with the past: I softened the relationship with the father and made the subject more honest at the point of death. There is a limitation to the work we are doing: ultimately, we cannot figure out why they want to die. Even if we have all the memories and the particular emphasis that is placed upon each element in the memory, we don’t know how the subject thinks. That means everything we do is guesswork. In the end, we are trying to change the conditions without changing the ways the subject reacts to the conditions. I am going to try installing some memories of seasons to counter the climate anxiety. Don’t try too hard to put yourself in the subject’s shoes: that’s my job. Quite a depressing job, too. -Susie

—

My father is standing before me. I am ten and naked: I had lost my clothes while I went swimming in the neighborhood pool. He was going through my closet, trying to find something to cover me up. “Look at the state of you, kid.” He said. “It’s cold.” I told him. “Of course it’s cold.” He laughed. “It’s on you for going out swimming in December.”

“I miss the summer.” I protest. 

“Well, you’d have to wait for it to come.”

“I hate waiting.” I protest. “I want the summer to last forever.”

My father likes the winter; he is especially fond of the change of seasons. I don’t particularly understand this: I have always loved warmth and heat, and the thin sheet of salt that is always on my skin in the summer. My father disapproves of this: he says without knowing the winter, I wouldn’t know what summer feels like. It’s already getting hotter, anyways: he says that in ten years time, global warming will make it feel like something is burning in the air all the time. It’s a common complaint from people of his generation.

No more winter when I grow up. I wouldn’t mind — I can’t wait.

—

To Susie: The lady from BreezyCo called me today and they said that an intern recovered some paperwork sketches from the subject’s computer. Apparently it’s enough to cross the bottleneck, so you can go ahead and delete anything you’re rendering. Don’t delete the base files yet, in case they change their mind. By the way, the folks from BreezyCo invited our team to spend the weekend at their air-conditioned living community in a couple of months. So I guess I’ll see you there? I told them that it’s a pity we couldn’t help much. At least we made someone happier. - Sam

—

I am running along the ledge under the summer sky. I pass the wooden bridge beneath the canopy of leaves, tracing my thumb against the crude carvings of hearts, a wide ocean beneath me in my wake. To beauty, to love, to truth. In the haze of the forest I see an opening covered with snow, my father standing in his suit at the other end. Everything I see is something I know. In between my almost dancing steps, I think of my sadness as something that flutters. That which nothing greater can be thought, it sinks and I rise to my work. My quotidian miracles, against all walls, making a home. The water closes in, my face protruding out the surface, I am in the water. I am here, I think, above the wetted bedrock of the world. This ocean is cold in the brilliant summer, so I swim. I am breathing, I am waiting for a final moment.
